you know phone rings you go into your
marine mammal EMT hat you just you just
got to get out there
come back died we don't really know why
it died at least we haven't determined
that yet part of our straining agreement
with the National Marine fishery service
is that we respond to every live and dad
programmable that washes up on the beach
I get more of a thrill out of the live
animals it's releasing them to such a
huge sense of accomplishment then today
you get to return these animals back to
the wild they seem astron because their
social only stick together a group for
better or worse and their pelagics their
offshore animals that don't usually come
into tidal areas and so I think
sometimes people think that these
animals throw themselves on shore the
realities that they come into these alas
to ares and the water just runs out from
underneath them the most rewarding
situation was the mass stranding of
animals we had last winter unfortunately
the conditions were very treacherous
probably shouldn't have been able to do
what we did it was sheer willpower they
got those dolphins out of that mud
trying to extract these animals from
literally cement is what it felt like I
was about six months pregnant at the
time it's kind of mud where you sink up
to your hips so basically made a bridge
out to these animals across the mud and
what we've transported them in our
trailers we have two very large recipe
trailers wall in route we run a health
assessment and we're able to draw blood
on the animals
analysis so we can tell if these are
healthy enough animals that we can
release them south our ultimate goal is
to do an immediate release
you also have to remember that this is
an emotional roller coaster for people
there were animals and they payn dust to
have to do that but there were animals
we just we had to leave their we end up
trying to get that when we may lose
these two and their viable ring house
we know physiologically we know that
they're stressed we've had a lot of
strandings where we have mom calf pears
when you taking them put the mom put
them basically head-to-head lie them
near each other and they both calm down
completely so you know that there are
there's a lot going on there
you know after all that in this poor
animal that had been through so much and
to make it so close yeah animals die
it's hard to deal with we don't have the
power to save every single animal but I
will also say that every single death
does take its toll on everybody
certainly those animals would have
suffered having not been able get out
there and it kills us that we weren't
able to get those other animals neither
myself for the rest of my co-workers
we're going to stop trying to pull that
animal just because you know it was just
kind of nishal difficult you're just so
happy to be able to release that many
animals yesterday
getting in the water with them and then
you know releasing them it just really
affirms why I do this
we don't know a lot about the species
that we're trying to save these are
animals that are swimming in the ocean
we see just a glimpse of them as far as
their whole life history and so trying
to understand a little bit more about it
is really what kind of drives me keeps
me going
you